[Music]
how many siblings do you have
could you imagine sharing a house or
bathroom with 68 brothers and sisters
well the Guinness World Records does
mention a lady who lived in the 18th
century that gave birth to 69 kids
valentina Vasily Ava was the first wife
of a peasant named Theodore vasilyev
from shuya Russia the family lived in
the 1700s between 1707 and 1782
valentina is believed to have lived
until the age of 76 and during her life
she had given birth a whopping 69 times
that's more than any other woman one
pair of twins didn't make it through
infancy but the remaining 67 did grow up
to be adults their father by the way
married a second time and had 18 kids 12
twins and six triplets with his second
wife fifteen of them survived so he was
a father to 82 kids the Guinness World
Records calls Valentina the most
prolific mother ever as her record is
still unbeaten
according to reports she'd gone through
27 Labour's 16 of them resulted in twins
7 in triplets and 4 in quadruplets yes
that's for babies at the same time four
times no how is that possible did she
just get pregnant once every three years
that would have made things easier for
Vasily Ava but let's remember a woman
isn't fertile her entire life only from
her early teens to about age 45
apparently valentina was a lucky
exception and had 40 years of fertility
that lasted from 1725 to 1765 doing the
math she'd have around one and a half
years for every pregnancy this may seem
enough at first glance impossible at
second glance and really dubious at
third glance so let's do some more
calculations you might know that an
average pregnancy takes 40 weeks however
the more children you have in the womb
the more likely it is that your labor
will come earlier according to the BBC
who became interested in the matter
believing it would have been all over
the tabloids in 18th century Russia did
some math for you they estimated that
Vasily Ava could have had 37 week
pregnancies with the twins 32 week
pregnancies with her triplets and 30
week pregnancies with the quadruplets if
you add all this up to get 936 weeks
there are 52 weeks in a year so if you
divide the resulting numbers you get 18
years
that means Vassily Ava spent almost two
decades of her life with a bun in the
oven that's a lot of time craving
pickles and ice cream well theoretically
Thessaly Ava had enough time to carry
all the babies there are a few more
facts that make reproduction experts
question the whole thing first of all
although there is such a thing as
multiple ovulation when a woman's body
releases several eggs per cycle it isn't
the most common thing in the world it
only happens in approximately five to
ten percent of all woman's cycles
there's still a chance Valentina was
just a unique phenomenon a really
special one by the way if she managed to
avoid the vanishing twin syndrome this
is a phenomenon that happens when one of
the twins or several in the case of
multiples gets absorbed by the placenta
a stronger fetus or even the mother's
body the syndrome is pretty common in
multi fetal pregnancies and occurs in 21
to 30 percent of cases
secondly pregnancy and labor is a
challenging thing for a woman's body and
when pregnancies go one by one less than
18 months apart
the risk of complications increases both
for the mom and for the baby
a woman's body just doesn't have enough
time to recover from all the changes
caused by the previous pregnancy and to
restore all the nutrients it lost now if
two back-to-back pregnancies are already
risky
imagine having 27 of
without any time to rest lastly imagine
life in the eighteenth century Russian
countryside they didn't have the luxury
of modern medicine at that time every
pregnancy was a risk had the fact that
they were also peasants and had to work
and take care of the children at the
same time making sure to have enough
food and clothes for the whole crowd
considering all that
how could anyone believe this really
happened the scientific community is
doubtful but there are historical
records that can serve as evidence that
this couple really did have 69 kids
more specifically the nikolsky monastery
sent a document to Moscow on February
27th 1782 that proved Fyodor Vasilyev
had eighty two living children from two
marriages this document was published in
1834 in the book the st. Petersburg
panorama
in 1783 the gentlemen's magazine
published an article regarding the
Vasilyev skates the author said that
this super fertility may come from the
man singly or the woman or both jointly
but it's more likely that the reason was
Fayed or himself since the story
repeated with his second wife - in 1878
an article about the family was
published in the lancet one of the
world's oldest medical journals it
claimed that the French Academy of
Sciences tried to investigate the case
and addressed the Imperial Academy of
st. Petersburg they were told the vast
natives lived in Moscow and received
favors from the government records and
articles are all good but a picture is
worth a thousand words so it's natural
that people want to see a photograph of
that impressive family there is one
popular image that's often thought to
represent the vast leaves but this is
actually a mistake that picture shows
the family of an American Joseph F Smith
he was married six times and became the
father of 45 biological and five adopted
children and if you think huge families
are a thing of the past you'd be
mistaken Michelle Duggar didn't give
birth to 69 kids but
nineteen is still an impressive number
right together with her husband JimBob
they became famous in the US thanks to a
TLC show called 19 Kids and Counting
Kristie Kayson and her husband Dave from
California have 17 kids together and
Christine gave birth to a total of 18
kids so far one from her other marriage
the family also starred in a TV show
that gave an insight of what it's like
to have over a dozen kids for example
they have to do laundry seven times a
day and even the smallest grocery
shopping involves at least two shopping
carts bringing up baits is a reality TV
show that's still running and tells
about the life of the Bates family that
have 19 kids giving birth to them must
have been quite a challenge to their mom
Kelly Jo because there are no twins or
triplets in the family and so she had to
go into labor 19 times one of the
frequently asked questions to the family
from their fans is how many pizzas does
it take to feed them all the answer the
family shared in their blog is nine
large single topping pizzas the biggest
family in the UK is that a su and Knoll
Redford
the couple has 21 kids and lives in a 10
bedroom house to fit that huge family
even though the two older kids don't
live with them anymore
the couple had planned to have just
three kids but apparently they just
couldn't stop and they're already
grandparents to their oldest daughters
three children
finally the largest family in the world
has 180 members seventy four year olds
iona china lives in india in a house
with 100 bedrooms with his thirty nine
wives ninety four children fourteen
daughters-in-law and thirty four
grandchildren even though none of his
many wives gave birth to an
astonishingly huge amount of kids
Ziya is still a father of 94 and that's
pretty impressive he believes it's both
in honor and a responsibility for him to
take care of such a huge family so do
you believe the story of the woman who
gave birth to 69 kids or are you still
skeptical about it let me know down in
the comments if you learned something
new today please give this video a like
and share it with a friend
hey don't go anywhere just yet we have
over 2,000 cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life